add document for typescript guidelines (#80)
MetaMask/contributor-docs: docs/typescript.md

> # **Typescript guidelines**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Typescript Guidelines
```
- All words should be capitalized in document title. 
- Applying bold style to a heading doesn't have any effect. All instances of this should be fixed throughout the doc.

Author: Gotcha !

**_Purpose_**: Establish best practices for writing robust, maintainable, and efficient TypeScript code.

**_Audience_**: Internal and external developers using TypeScript in Metamask.

## **Interfaces**

> By defining expected object structures with interfaces, TypeScript promotes developer intent and unlocks powerful IDE features like accurate completion and context-aware navigation.

Reviewer: FYI: We're enforcing usage of type aliases over interfaces in all of our packages with the eslint rule `@typescript-eslint/consistent-type-definitions`.

See the following for previous discussions on this matter:
- https://github.com/MetaMask/eslint-config/pull/216
- https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1933

Author: Will change the title to `type`, thanks for the heads up

Reviewer: Continued in https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/80#discussion_r1506955448

> ### **Enumerations**
> 
> TypeScript offers several tools for crafting clear data definitions, with enumerations and unions standing as popular choices.

Reviewer: The name for enumerated constants in TypeScript is `enum`s not "enumerations." 

```suggestion
### Enums

TypeScript offers several tools for crafting clear data definitions, with enums and unions standing as popular choices.
```

**Consider using enums over union types for situations with a fixed set of known values.**

Inevitably you will want to refer to the values of a union type somewhere (perhaps as the argument to a function). You can of course just use a literal which represents a member of that union — but if you have an enum, then all of the values are special, and any time you use a value then anyone can see where that value comes from.

**Don't use numeric enums**

Numeric enums are misleading because it creates a reverse mapping from value to property name, and when using `Object.values` to access member names, it will return the numerical values instead of the member names, potentially causing unexpected behavior.

## **Types**

#### Constrain generic types if necessary

It may not be enough just to have a type or a function take another type — you might have to constrain it if it's not allowed to be anything (e.g. extends Json)

> ```typescript
> // before
> function createExampleMiddleware(
>   exampleParam,
> ): JsonRpcMiddleware<JsonRpcParams, Json>;
> // after
> function createExampleMiddleware<
>   Params extends JsonRpcParams = JsonRpcParmas,
>   Result extends Json = Json,
> >(exampleParam): JsonRpcMiddleware<Params, Result>;
> ```

Reviewer: This would be a much better example of generic constraints with the following change:

```suggestion
// before
function createExampleMiddleware<Params, Result>(
  exampleParam,
): JsonRpcMiddleware<JsonRpcParams, Json>;
// after
function createExampleMiddleware<
  Params extends JsonRpcParams,
  Result extends Json,
>(exampleParam): JsonRpcMiddleware<Params, Result>;
```
(removed the default params to keep the example focused on generic constraints and avoid confusion)

See: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/generics.html#generic-constraints

- Removing Unnecessary Properties:
  Imagine you have a user interface with optional email and phone number fields. However, your API call only cares about the `username`. You can use Omit to reduce the required properties:

```typescript
interface User {
  username: string;
  email?: string;
  phoneNumber?: string;
}

// Type for API call payload
type ApiPayload = Omit<User, 'email' | 'phoneNumber'>;

const payload: ApiPayload = { username: 'johndoe' };
// Now `payload` only has the `username` property, satisfying the API requirements.
```

- Conditional Omission:
  Sometimes, you might want to remove properties based on a condition. `Omit` can still be helpful:

```typescript
interface CartItem {
  productId: number;
  quantity: number;
  color?: string; // Optional color

// Omit color if quantity is 1
const singleItemPayload = Omit<CartItem, "color" extends string ? "color" : never>;

// Omit color for all items if quantity is always 1
const cartPayload: singleItemPayload[] = [];
```

#### Avoid type assertions, or explain their purpose whenever necessary.

> Type assertions inform TypeScript about a variable's actual type, using the `as` syntax or the angle bracket `<Type>` syntax.

Reviewer: Generic types are completely different from type assertions, especially since TypeScript doesn't do type casting.

See https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/wiki/FAQ#why-doesnt-this-incorrect-cast-throw-a-runtime-error

```suggestion
Type assertions inform TypeScript about a variable's actual type, using the `as` syntax.
```

Reviewer: Looks like this is a deprecated syntax for type assertions. In any case, it should be removed as it's no longer in use.

While it's generally recommended to avoid type assertions in TypeScript, here are two common scenarios where they might be necessary:

1. Using reduce:

Imagine you have an array of User objects and want to find the youngest user using reduce. You start with an empty accumulator `({})`, but the final result should be a User object.

```typescript
interface User {
  name: string;
  age: number;
}

const users: User[] = [
  // ... user data
];

const youngestUser = users.reduce((acc, user) => {
  if (!acc.age || user.age < acc.age) {
    acc = user; // Here, `acc` might be undefined initially.
  }
  return acc;
}, {} as User); // Assert `{}` as `User` to satisfy the return type.

console.log(youngestUser); // { name: "...", age: maxAge }
```

2. Iterating over Enum Keys:
   When iterating over enum keys using `Object.keys`, the resulting array is of type `string[]`. However, if you want to access enum member values directly, you might need a type assertion.

```typescript=
enum Direction {
  Up,
  Down,
  Left,
  Right,
}

const directions: Direction[] = [Direction.Up, Direction.Down];

> for (const key in directions) {
>   const direction = directions[key] as Direction; // Assert to access enum values.
>   console.log(direction); // Output: Direction.Up, Direction.Down
> }

Reviewer: The type assertion can be easily avoided here:

```suggestion
for (const key of directions) {
  const direction = directions[key];
  console.log(direction); // Output: Direction.Up, Direction.Down
}
```

Reviewer: Also, `for .. in` loops are banned by our eslint rules.
- For previous discussion, see https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/1865

Author: Thanks for the heads up, applied the changes now. thanks so much !

Reviewer: Continued in https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/80#discussion_r1506956360

In rare cases, using type annotations with `reduce` can be beneficial. It helps tp clarify complex accumulator types, enhance readability and ensure the compiler understands its intended use.

If you need to create a data structure with specific values, but ensure that it's declared with a more abstract type. Create a function that takes an argument of the type you want, then use it to build the object.

```typescript
interface Person {
  name: string;
  age: number;
  occupation?: string; // Optional property
}

// Function with type annotations:
function createPerson<T extends { name: string; age: number }>(
  data: T,
): Person {
  // Infer types from the data argument
  const { name, age, occupation = 'Unknown' } = data;

  // Ensure properties adhere to the Person interface
  return { name, age, occupation };
}

// Usage:
const person1 = createPerson({ name: 'Alice', age: 30 }); // { name: "Alice", age: 30, occupation: "Unknown" }
const person2 = createPerson({ name: 'Bob', age: 25, occupation: 'Developer' }); // { name: "Bob", age: 25, occupation: "Developer" }
```

> TypeScript is planning to introduce the `satisfies` keyword, which will provide a more flexible way to declare that a data structure conforms to a specific type without sacrificing readability or maintainability. However, this feature is not yet available.

Reviewer: Type annotations prevent inference-based narrowing of the user-supplied type. This is why they should be avoided, or at least why type inference should generally be preferred (unless supplying the annotation narrows the type further than the inferred result).

In contrast, the `satisfies` operator enables the user to assign a wider/abstract type to a value as a constraint, while also allowing the value's type to be further narrowed.

It lets us avoid wrapping specific types in a function to assign a wider type.

> Need to create a data structure with specific values, but ensure that it's declared with a more abstract type? Create a function that takes an argument of the type you want, then use it to build the object. (https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/issues/69#issuecomment-1876114356)

```ts
const limitExceeded = () =>
    ({
      jsonrpc: '2.0',
      id: IdGenerator(),
      error: {
        code: -32005,
        message: 'Limit exceeded',
      },
    }),
```

I'll update this section with my PR for https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/issues/47, since I already cover these points there.

# Typescript Guidelines

**_Purpose_**: Establish best practices for writing robust, maintainable, and efficient TypeScript code.

> **_Audience_**: Internal and external developers using TypeScript in Metamask.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**_Audience_**: Internal and external developers using TypeScript to contribute to MetaMask.
```

We want to use consistent styling for our main product name (similarly, "Consensys," not "ConsenSys" or some other variation).

> ## **Type**
> 
> By defining expected object structures with interfaces, TypeScript promotes developer intent and unlocks powerful IDE features like accurate completion and context-aware navigation.

Reviewer: (continued from https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/80#discussion_r1506360915)

On second glance, we do use interfaces in the sense that you're describing it. And I think establishing contracts for classes is a development pattern worth encouraging. We just consistently use type alias syntax instead of interface syntax to write all types, including class "interfaces." Sorry for the confusion here. 

How about we split this into two sections?

```suggestion
## `implements` keyword

The `implements` keyword enables us to define and enforce interfaces, i.e. strict contracts consisting of expected object and class properties and abstract method signatures. 

Writing an interface to establish the specifications of a class that external code can interact with without being aware of internal implementation details is encouraged as sound OOP development practice. 

Here's an abbreviated example from `@metamask/polling-controller` of an interface being used to define one of our most important constructs.

\```ts
export type IPollingController = {
  ...
}
...
export function AbstractPollingControllerBaseMixin<TBase extends Constructor>(
  Base: TBase,
) {
  abstract class AbstractPollingControllerBase
    extends Base
    implements IPollingController
  { ... }
  return AbstractPollingControllerBase  
}
\```

The concept of the interface as discussed in this section is not to be confused with interface syntax as opposed to type alias. Note that in the above example, the `IPollingController` interface is defined as a type alias, not using the `interface` keyword. 

## Always prefer Type Aliases over Interface syntax

We enforce consistent and exclusive usage of type aliases over interface syntax for several reasons:

- The capabilities of type aliases is a strict superset of those of interfaces. 
  - Crucially, `extends`, `implements` are also supported by type aliases.
  - Declaration merging is the only exception, but we have no use case for this feature that cannot be substituted by using type intersections.
- Unlike interfaces, type aliases extend `Record` and have an index signature of `string` by default, which makes them compatible with our Json-serializable types (most notably `Record<string, Json>`). 
- Interfaces do not support multiple inheritance, while type aliases can be freely merged using the intersection (`&`) operator.
```

(remove the backticks around the fenced code block)

This is intended as an initial draft. Feel free to edit.

Reviewer: Removing the second entry is also acceptable since `@typescript-eslint/consistent-type-definitions` does a good job of enforcing the practice without everyone having to know the reasoning behind its adoption. 

In general, the guidelines doesn't need to cover conventions that we already enforce using linter rules or static code analysis in too much detail. This doc isn't intended as a comprehensive collection of every preference we have agreed upon. The priority should be on covering principles or processes that aren't reducible to simple rulesets and rely on a deeper understanding from the developers to be effective.

Author: Thanks for all the recommendations, i've added your suggestions, and changed the section title as `Implements`

> ### **Enums**

Reviewer: Applying bold style to a markdown heading has no effect.

```suggestion
### Enums
```

TypeScript offers several tools for crafting clear data definitions, with enumerations and unions standing as popular choices.

> **Consider using enums over union types for situations with a fixed set of known values.**

Reviewer: The entries in this doc should be at the same heading level.

```suggestion
#### Consider using enums over union types for situations with a fixed set of known values.
```

Author: I'm using `**` to represent lower level title, but can certainly change everyone !

Inevitably you will want to refer to the values of a union type somewhere (perhaps as the argument to a function). You can of course just use a literal which represents a member of that union — but if you have an enum, then all of the values are special, and any time you use a value then anyone can see where that value comes from.

🚫

```typescript
type UserRole = 'admin' | 'editor' | 'subscriber';
```

✅

```typescript
enum AccountType {
  Admin = 'admin',
  User = 'user',
  Guest = 'guest',
}
```

> **Don't use numeric enums**

Reviewer: The entries in this doc should be at the same heading level.

```suggestion
#### Don't use numeric enums
```

Numeric enums are misleading because it creates a reverse mapping from value to property name, and when using `Object.values` to access member names, it will return the numerical values instead of the member names, potentially causing unexpected behavior.
🚫

```typescript
enum Direction {
  Up = 0,
  Down = 1,
  Left = 2,
  Right = 3,
}

const directions = Object.values(Direction); // [0, 1, 2, 3]
```

✅

```typescript
enum Direction {
  Up = 'Up',
  Down = 'Down',
  Left = 'Left',
  Right = 'Right',
}

const directions = Object.values(Direction); // ["Up", "Down", "Left", "Right"]
```

> ## **Types**

Reviewer: Applying bold style to a markdown heading has no effect.

```suggestion
## Types
```

Author: changed also

1. Using reduce:

Imagine you have an array of User objects and want to find the youngest user using reduce. You start with an empty accumulator `({})`, but the final result should be a User object.

```typescript
interface User {
  name: string;
  age: number;
}

const users: User[] = [
  // ... user data
];

const youngestUser = users.reduce((acc, user) => {
  if (!acc.age || user.age < acc.age) {
    acc = user; // Here, `acc` might be undefined initially.
  }
  return acc;
}, {} as User); // Assert `{}` as `User` to satisfy the return type.

console.log(youngestUser); // { name: "...", age: maxAge }
```

2. Iterating over Enum Keys:
   When iterating over enum keys using `Object.keys`, the resulting array is of type `string[]`. However, if you want to access enum member values directly, you might need a type assertion.

```typescript
enum Direction {
  Up,
  Down,
  Left,
  Right,
}

const directions: Direction[] = [Direction.Up, Direction.Down];

for (const key of directions) {
  const direction = directions[key];
  console.log(direction); // Output: Direction.Up, Direction.Down
}

> ```

Reviewer: This is no longer an example of `as` assertion being used. Should we replace it with one that fits under the section heading?

> #### Avoid type assertions, or explain their purpose whenever necessary.

Reviewer: Ah actually this is my bad. I see this example is working by coincidence: because `Direction.Up` and `Direction.Down` happen to be the first two index keys of the `directions` array.

This would still work as an example of type assertion with the following changes:

```typescript
enum Direction {
  Up = 'up',
  Down = 'down',
  Left = 'left',
  Right = 'right',
}

const directions: Direction[] = [Direction.Up, Direction.Down];

for (const key of directions) {
  const direction = directions[key as keyof typeof directions];
  console.log(direction); // Output: Direction.Up, Direction.Down
}
```

We also have a built-in utility type for narrowing key signatures, which simplifies the code.

```ts
import { getKnownPropertyNames } from '@metamask/utils';

...

for (const key of getKnonwPropertyNames(direction)) {
  const direction = directions[key];
}
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, i've learnt a new`getKnonwPropertyNames` today

# **Typescript guidelines**

***Purpose***: Establish best practices for writing robust, maintainable, and efficient TypeScript code.

***Audience***: Internal and external developers using TypeScript in Metamask.

## **Interfaces**
By defining expected object structures with interfaces, TypeScript promotes developer intent and unlocks powerful IDE features like accurate completion and context-aware navigation.

### **Enumerations**
TypeScript offers several tools for crafting clear data definitions, with enumerations and unions standing as popular choices.

**Consider using enums over union types for situations with a fixed set of known values.**

> Inevitably you will want to refer to the values of a union type somewhere (perhaps as the argument to a function). You can of course just use a literal which represents a member of that union — but if you have an enum, then all of the values are special, and any time you use a value then anyone can see where that value comes from.

Reviewer 2: Could you provide examples for this?

Author: yes added !

**Don't use numeric enums**

> Numeric enums are misleading because it creates a reverse mapping from value to property name, and when using `Object.values` to access member names, it will return the numerical values instead of the member names, potentially causing unexpected behavior.

Reviewer 2: Could you provide examples for this?

Author: yes, added !

  Result extends Json = Json
>(exampleParam): JsonRpcMiddleware<Params, Result>
```

#### Use `Partial` to type the accumulating variable in `reduce`
When using reduce in TypeScript, the accumulating variable's type can be difficult to define, especially when dealing with optional properties or incomplete objects. In such cases, using Partial allows you to start with an empty object and gradually add optional properties as needed. Here's an example:

``` typescript
interface User {
  name: string;
  age?: number; // optional property
  email: string;
}

// Partial<User> would be:
type PartialUser = {
  name?: string;
  age?: number;
  email?: string;
}

const users: User[] = [
  { name: "Alice", age: 25, email: "alice@example.com" },
  { name: "Bob", age: 30, email: "bob@example.com" },
];

const oldestUser = users.reduce((acc, user) => {
  // acc starts as Partial<User> (empty object)
  if (user.age && (acc.age === undefined || user.age > acc.age)) {
    acc.age = user.age;
    acc.name = user.name; // add additional properties as needed
  }
  return acc;
}, {} as Partial<User>); // initialize with empty object

console.log(oldestUser); // { name: "Bob", age: 30 }

> ```

Reviewer: This also conflicts directly with [lines 412-439](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/80#discussion_r1506095370).

#### Avoid type assertions, or explain their purpose whenever necessary.
Type assertions inform TypeScript about a variable's actual type, using the `as` syntax or the angle bracket ``<Type>`` syntax.
While type assertions offer flexibility, they can bypass TypeScript's safety net. This means the compiler won't catch potential type mismatches, leaving you responsible for ensuring correctness.

While it's generally recommended to avoid type assertions in TypeScript, here are two common scenarios where they might be necessary:

1. Using reduce:

Imagine you have an array of User objects and want to find the youngest user using reduce. You start with an empty accumulator `({})`, but the final result should be a User object.
```typescript
interface User {
  name: string;
  age: number;
}

const users: User[] = [
  // ... user data
];

const youngestUser = users.reduce((acc, user) => {
  if (!acc.age || user.age < acc.age) {
    acc = user; // Here, `acc` might be undefined initially.
  }
  return acc;
}, {} as User); // Assert `{}` as `User` to satisfy the return type.

console.log(youngestUser); // { name: "...", age: maxAge }

> ```

Reviewer: There are four different entries providing conflicting guidelines for `reduce` usage. 

This highlighted portion aligns with this entry:
- https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/80/files#r1506091213 (lines 38-70)

...and directly contradicts these entries:
- https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/80/files#r1506093304 (lines 253-285)
- https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/80/files#r1506095370 (lines 412-439)

**_Purpose_**: Establish best practices for writing robust, maintainable, and efficient TypeScript code.

**_Audience_**: Internal and external developers using TypeScript to contribute to MetaMask.

### Implements

> **`implements` keyword**

Reviewer: Nit: is this maybe a section heading rather than just emphasized text?

The `implements` keyword enables us to define and enforce interfaces, i.e. strict contracts consisting of expected object and class properties and abstract method signatures.
Writing an interface to establish the specifications of a class that external code can interact while without being aware of internal implementation details is encouraged as sound OOP development practice.
Here's an abbreviated example from `@metamask/polling-controller` of an interface being used to define one of our most important constructs.
```typescript
export type IPollingController = {
...
}

export function AbstractPollingControllerBaseMixin<TBase extends Constructor>(
    Base: TBase,
) {
    abstract class AbstractPollingControllerBase
        extends Base
        implements IPollingController
    { ... }
    return AbstractPollingControllerBase
}
```

The concept of the interface as discussed in this section is not to be confused with interface syntax as opposed to type alias syntax. Note that in the above example, the `IPollingController` interface is defined as a type alias, not using the `interface` keyword.

> **Always prefer type aliases over `interface` keyword**

Reviewer: Nit: is this maybe a section heading rather than just emphasized text?

Author: Good catch !! changed !

We enforce consistent and exclusive usage of type aliases over the `interface` keyword to declare types for several reasons:
- The capabilities of type aliases is a strict superset of those of interfaces.
    - Crucially, `extends`, `implements` are also supported by type aliases.
    - Declaration merging is the only exception, but we have no use case for this feature that cannot be substituted by using type intersections.
- Unlike interfaces, type aliases extend `Record` and have an index signature of `string` by default, which makes them compatible with our Json-serializable types (most notably `Record<string, Json>`).
- Interfaces do not support multiple inheritance, while type aliases can be freely merged using the intersection (`&`) operator.

### Enums

TypeScript offers several tools for crafting clear data definitions, with enumerations and unions standing as popular choices.

> ####Consider using enums over union types for situations with a fixed set of known values.

Reviewer: Nit:
> MD018/no-missing-space-atx: No space after hash on atx style heading markdownlint [MD018](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/v0.33.0/doc/md018.md)

```suggestion
#### Consider using enums over union types for situations with a fixed set of known values.
```

}
```

> ####Don't use numeric enums

Reviewer: Nit:
> MD018/no-missing-space-atx: No space after hash on atx style heading markdownlint [MD018](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/v0.33.0/doc/md018.md)

```suggestion
#### Don't use numeric enums
```

   When iterating over enum keys using `Object.keys`, the resulting array is of type `string[]`. However, if you want to access enum member values directly, you might need a type assertion.

```typescript
import { getKnownPropertyNames } from '@metamask/utils';

enum Direction { 
    Up = 'up', 
    Down = 'down', 
    Left = 'left', 
    Right = 'right', 
} 
const directions: Direction[] = [Direction.Up, Direction.Down]; 
for (const key of getKnonwPropertyNames(direction)) {
    const direction = directions[key as keyof typeof directions];

>     console.log(direction); // Output: Direction.Up, Direction.Down }

Reviewer: I should have clarified that my `getKnownPropertyNames` example wasn't meant to be used here. I'm sorry for the confusion.

The usefulness of `getKnownPropertyNames` is that it makes the `as` assertion *unnecessary* ([you can see why by checking out its definition](https://github.com/MetaMask/utils/blob/ec0237cf6793b9b31efffde247152c12ffd1a260/src/misc.ts#L102-L117)). So the above code can't be used as an example for this section.

We'll need to remove the `getKnownPropertyNames` import statement. The type annotation for `directions` can also be removed (this is preferable for reasons detailed [here](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/74/files#diff-ae03a9f2eb638a25c1d8d7ba853c78220f1ed44a19ad97a8d780cbc0c00a4260R7-R46)).

```ts
enum Direction { 
  Up = 'up', 
  Down = 'down', 
  Left = 'left', 
  Right = 'right', 
}
const directions = [Direction.Up, Direction.Down];
```

From there, we can resolve the index signature error that arises from the property access expression `directions[key]`,
> Element implicitly has an 'any' type because index expression is not of type 'number'.(7015)

by choosing one of these two options:

- option 1:
```ts
for (const key of Object.keys(direction)) {
  const direction = directions[key as keyof typeof directions];
}
```
- option 2:
```ts
for (const key of Object.keys(directions) as (keyof typeof directions)[]) {
  const direction = directions[key];
}
```

You can use either or both as the example(s) for this entry.

Author: Thank you @MajorLift for the comprehensive explanation, modified this section as well

};
// evaluates all values to `string`
```

✅
```typescript
const templateString = `Failed with error message: ${error.message}` as const // Type 'Failed with error message: ${typeof error.message}'
export const PROVIDER_ERRORS = {
  limitExceeded: () =>
    ({
      jsonrpc: '2.0',
      id: IdGenerator(),
      error: {
        code: -32005,
        message: 'Limit exceeded',
      },
    } as const),
  ...
}
/** evaluates to:
{
  jsonrpc: '2.0';
  id: ReturnType<IdGenerator>;
  error: {
    code: -32005;
    message: 'Limit exceeded';
  };
}
*/
export const SUPPORTED_NETWORK_CHAINIDS = {
  MAINNET: '0x1',
  BSC: '0x38',
  OPTIMISM: '0xa',
  POLYGON: '0x89',
  AVALANCHE: '0xa86a',
  ARBITRUM: '0xa4b1',
  LINEA_MAINNET: '0xe708',
} as const;
```

Exceptions:
🚫
```typescript
// This isn't necessary because the string literal is already considered a const by the compiler.
const walletName = 'metamask' as const;
this.messagingSystem.registerActionHandler(
      `${name}:call` as const,
      ...
);
```

✅
```typescript
const walletName = 'metamask';
this.messagingSystem.registerActionHandler(
      `${name}:call`,
      ...
);
```

## **Language features**

> #### Prefer the nullish coalescing operator `??`

Reviewer 2: Could you provide examples for this?

* `??` guarantees that the left-hand operand is nullish but not falsy, which is both safer and reduces cognitive overhead for reviewers.
* Using `||` leads reviewers to assume that ?? was intentionally avoided, forcing them to consider cases where the left-hand operand is falsy. This should never happen if the left-hand operand is guaranteed to be nullish and not falsy.

> #### Prefer negation (`!`) over strict equality checks for `undefined`, but not for `null`.

Reviewer 2: Could you provide examples for this?

2. `(...args: never) => unknown`

In general, array types of arbitrary length are not assignable to tuple types that have fixed types designated to some or all of its index positions (the array is wider than the tuple since it has less constraints).

This means that there's a whole subcategory of functions that `(...args: never[]) => unknown` doesn't cover: functions that have a finite number of parameters that are strictly ordered and typed, while also accepting an arbitrary number of "rest" parameters. The spread argument list of such a function evaluates as a variadic tuple type with a minimum fixed length, instead of a freely expandable (or contractable) array type.

`(...args: never[]) => unknown` covers functions for which all of the params can be typed together as a group e.g. `(...args: (string | number)[]) => T`, or it has a fixed number of params e.g. `(a: string, b: number) => T`. But to cover cases like `(a: string, b: number, ...rest: unknown[]) => T`, we need another top type with an even narrower type for the params: `(...args: never) => unknown`.

> #### Avoid implicit, hard-coded generic parameters that are inaccessible from the outermost user-facing type.

Reviewer 2: Could you provide examples for this?
